This has indeed been a unique class of Gilead at a most unique time in world events.
The Bethel family is fully aware of what transpired, but since this program will be broadcast
to our global brotherhood, let me remind all of you of what transpired.
You're well aware of the unique time in world events, a global pandemic.
What makes this class so unique?
A normal class of Gilead consists of 50 some students.
The 149th class is made up of just 25.
Your class is abnormal, but why?
You know why, but let me share your experience with the world-wide brotherhood.
Those who had been invited to attend this class of Gilead had begun to arrive at the
Educational Center in Patterns in New York.
The 25 students in this class actually arrived in mid-March of 2020.
And as we all know, it was at that time that the coronavirus was declared to be a global
pandemic.
Most travel was shut down.
The rest of their classmate could not come.
Due to government restrictions on educational facilities, the 149th class had to be postponed.
You students were stuck at Patterns in New York with no classes in session.
Commendably, many of you were able to work remotely for your home branch office in the
interim.
Finally, here in New York, government agencies allowed for educational facilities to again
conduct classes if physical distancing could be maintained.
With just 25 of you, that was possible in the Gilead lecture hall.
So we have only 25 abnormal students who will graduate today to clarify.
It is the number of students that makes this class abnormal.
But I'm told by your instructors that individually, you are very normal.
In fact, they are very impressed with your spirituality and your Christian personalities.
You have excelled in your studies and classroom participation.
Students are delighted to be with you on this very special day.
What else though makes this an abnormal Gilead graduation?
You were not able to invite family members and close friends to be here in person with
you for this exciting event.
However, the teaching committee made arrangements for you to tie in a number of these ones for
a streamed recording of the program.
And the good news is that the entire program is being recorded and will be posted as a
future JW Broadcasting Monthly program in all of the approved languages.
We have a few statistics to share about the 149th class.
Of the 25 students, eight or married couples, seven are single brothers, and there are two
single sisters in the class.
I guess they're still single.
All we're serving at a Bethel Branch Facility are at a regional translation office before
attending school.
The students are from 14 different countries and speak 29 different languages.
Their average age is 41.
That's a good age.
44 years ago, I was 41.
Their average years and full-time service is 20.
In the Bible, Gilead referred to a territory in Israel, and that name, Gilead, was derived
from a Hebrew word that meant witness heap.
When the school was first inaugurated in 1943, Gilead was an appropriate name.
One of the instructors described the purpose of the school saying, it was to instill in the
students a more intense desire to share in the evangelizing world.
And for decades, thousands of missionaries were sent out to open up new territories around
the world.
A heap of witness was given during that period of time.
However, in 2011, the governing body adjusted this specific purpose of Gilead.
Instead of focusing on opening up new territories for preaching, the purpose of the curriculum
changed.
As we mentioned previously, this entire class was already serving at a Bethel Facility
or a regional translation office.
The goal of Gilead is now to bolster such ones so as to strengthen and stabilize God's
people in the respective territories to which they will be assigned.
Then what about the all-important evangelizing work?
Who is assisting with the heap of witness where a white?
That's now the focus of the school for kingdom evangelizers.
Each branch committee selects qualified pioneers who are willing to be transferred to another
part of the country that needs help with the preaching work.
By using the large pool of zealous local pioneers, the heap of witness is still being given
where the need is great.
These local ones are already adapted to the culture, climate, and living conditions in
their countries, and oftentimes they already know the language where there is the greatest
need.
However, the 25 of you in this class of Gilead are expected to strengthen and stabilize
God's people where you are assigned.
Well, what does that entail?
For you brothers, in time it may mean you will be given more responsibility.
But your training has given you another way to stabilize fellow believers in your assignment.
And this applies to all 25 of you whether brothers or sisters.
You've been elevated while here at the Gilead.
In fact, in the territory of Gilead in the Bible, the elevation changes dramatically.
In the Jordan Valley, Gilead was 690 feet, 210 meters, below sea level.
But traveling east to the dome like mountainous region of Gilead, the elevation rises to
over 3,300 feet or 1,000 meters.
New students came to Gilead, below sea level.
But with daily Bible study and lectures, you have been elevated.
Throughout the past 5 months, your faith has grown.
Your spirituality has been enhanced.
Your Christian personality has been refined.
You have been elevated.
You will be going out to your assignment, not so much for a heap of witness, but as a heap
of example.
In this way, you will strengthen and stabilize those you work with at the branch and those
you associate with in your congregations.
Find a Deuteronomy 8, verses 17 and 18.
Never forget that your power and strength, your spiritual wealth, does not originate with
you.
It is Jehovah who has made this transformation in you.
Read with me Deuteronomy 8, 17 and 18.
If you should say in your heart, my own power and the strength of my own hand have produced
this wealth for me.
Remember that it is Jehovah your God who gives power to you to make well.
In order to carry out his covenant that he swore to your forefathers as it is today.
Today you will graduate from the 149th class of Gilead, but you will strengthen and stabilize
those in your assignment if you remember that it is Jehovah your God who gives power
to you.